>> Jon Kuperman: So before we kinda
dive into any of the panels in specific,
I was gonna do just a kind of quick
walkthrough all of the panels so
we can kind of see what
their purpose is and
be able to better anticipate the kind of
stuff that we're gonna be covering later.
Cool.
>> Jon Kuperman: So if I open up a new tab
here and go to about:blank,
and then open up the DevTools.
Cool, we get a little something like this.
So actually, let me,
instead of about:blank, let me go to,
this is what the sample app looks like.
So before we get started with that,
I guess the ways to open the DevTools,
you have a couple of different options.
Probably, the easiest one is
to right-click anywhere, and
then just click Inspect on your screen.
You can also Cmd if you're on a Mac or
Ctrl if you're on Windows, and
then you can do something
like Cmd+Option+i,
it would open up the DevTools
as like a shortcut there.
But either way, once we get them open,
the basic idea for those not familiar
with them is that you got kind of these
top level panels over here across the top.
And then as you click through each one, it
changes the content of what's down below.
So another thing that's interesting,
a feature I'd been kinda wanting for
years is that these are all drag and
droppable, and that those persist.
So you can drag to reorder.
So I do apologize if my order is
a little bit different than yours,
cuz I don't remember what
the default order is.
But we're gonna go across this way,
kind of just do a very high level of what
they're for, and then we'll start
diving deeper into each one.
So the first one is the Elements panel.
This is back to that Hixie DOM viewer
that we saw, basically the same thing.
So on the left hand side,
you have the DOM tree that Chrome
has parsed from your HTML.
You have all these nodes here.
They're expandable.
There's some cool things like if I
minimize this a little bit, as you
hover over DOM nodes, it does its best
to highlight the node itself up there.
They're expandable by
clicking on the arrow.
A little cool trick is that you can hold,
I believe, it's the Alt key,
well, Option on Mac, and if you click on
the caret, then it expands all of them.
So you can expend your
entire tree back and forth.
If you just click on it,
it just expands that one.
And then on the right
side are all the styles.
And so what happens here is that you
click on a different DOM element and
then the Styles panel updates to show
you what styles are being applied to it.
So this I find is usually like the most
common thing people have done with
DevTools so far.
So you would like find an element
then you go over to styles and
you'd kinda see what's going on with it.
They show a bunch of cool information,
like basically,
what you're seeing here is every
single style that's applied to it.
And the ones that have been kind
of trumped are crossed out, so
you can see which ones are rendering.
There's a bunch of other really cool tabs
over here, which we'll cover when we get
into the editing section, but the kind of
basics of this are your HTML and your CSS.
Then we have the console.
So this is interactive consoles, so
you can type things like 1+1, and
it'll evaluate it.
We can go a little bigger.
You can do any JavaScript expressions.
So you can do const foo = "foo".
And then if you type foo,
it will, as a repo, it'll read and
evaluate that for you.
You can also do longer things
like multi-line functions.
So you could do function bar, and
then instead of hitting Enter,
which would just evaluate it,
wow, that's new.
[LAUGH] So it used to just
evaluate it if you did that.
I guess, it's smart enough now to know
that you have an open-parenthesis.
So if you just hit Enter,
it drops you down there.
You can do a console.log["hi"];
something like that.
And then you can close it, hit Enter.
And then if you type bar and
you call it, it will greet hi.
So you got this kind of
interactive repo here.
There's some really cool things that
we'll get into where the elements and
the Console panel work
really well together.
And by that, I mean that you can select
any element in the Elements panel and
you can bring it into the Console
through some keyboard shortcuts.
So just pretty cool if you wanna see
like what APIs are available on it.
Then we've got our Sources tab,
make this a little bit bigger.
So basically, I kinda want you to think
about the Sources tab as your text editor.
So like very similar to any other text
editor, you've got all the files that
are coming down from the file
system over here on your left, and
if you click on one, it opens it up
over here in this like tab thing.
So this is pretty similar if you use like
Sublime or VS Code or anything like that.
The difference being you have this kind
of debugger over here on the right.
And so this is what we're gonna use for
setting breakpoints and
then step through debugging.
It's got a bunch of really cool stuff that
we can do kind of beyond just console log.
Some more in-depth debugging over here.
But the left stuff is just
really nice text editor,
it's got color highlighting,
everything like that.
The next one, we have the Network panel.
So if I have the Network tab up and
I do a Refresh,
the Network panel basically shows
you what's called the waterfall.
And so the waterfall is like
every single HTTP request
that your website makes, right?
So if you think about it, you have
a website for the first time and you get
an HTML file and it has CSS, JavaScript's
links to other stuff, whatever.
All those get pulled in, and so this is
gonna show you every file that came down,
its type, its size, how long it took,
a bunch of great information.
Yup, this one is kind of a new one.
It's a combination, so it used to
have like profiling and timeline.
Now, you have this Performance tab.
So if I kind of like click
the Record button on performance and
scroll around the page and then I click
Stop, you get a lot of information.
So we'll be covering this pretty in-depth,
but basically,
it does like everything
that your CPU is doing.
So like all the JavaScript that
gets parsed, what it's up to,
where repaints happen, where JavaScript
bottlenecks could be anything like that.
This one's the Memory tab, so another
kind of like confusing area is that for
debugging memory leaks, you actually
end up using the Performance and
the Memory tab a lot?
So it's a little bit confusing but
the performance is like your
kind of best place to start.
We'll dive deeper into it but this Memory
tab allows you to do these profiles,
these snapshots basically where you can
grab like a moment in time on the site and
it'll show you all the memory that's been
allocated to your site, what it's for,
why it got there, everything like that.
So this is really great as we get
into the memory leak section.
We've got this Application section.
This one also used to be called resources,
I believe.
So it kind of serves
two different purposes.
One, is that it shows all of
the kind browser storage you have.
So I'm not sure if any of you have
ever used like local storage before,
if you set cookies or
if you set session stuff or index.
These are all options that you have
when you're developing websites for like
sticking something on the user's browser
so that you can read it again later.
So commonly, like if you log on to
a website, the website will set a cookie
with your login information, so
when you come back, it can read that.
Similarly, if you have like preferences
that you set like, I like this theme or
this whatever.
Those are pretty common to
be stuck in local storage.
So you can go to any website and you can
start clicking on them and see like what,
if any, information that website
is storing about you, all right?
The next one,
this one's pretty straightforward.
[LAUGH] This page is not secure.
And so the idea here is there's been this
really big push over the last couple of
years for HTTPS, so for using secure
socket layers everywhere, basically.
So some things you notice out of Google
are when you go to a secure site, so
if I go to google.com,
I'll get this green lock here and
the word secure across the top, right?
You'll also notice that if I open
the DevTools on google.com and I go to
Security, I get a lot more information,
like the security certificate is valid,
the connection is strong,
all these different things.
So the security comes in really
important for a couple of reasons.
One is all the security problems, right?
If you have a website and you're taking
any kind of sensitive information,
login credentials, anything like that and
you're not doing it over HTTPS,
then it can easily be sniffed and
read and stolen.
But the other thing from
the product side is that Google and
a lot of the other browsers and
search engines and
things like that are really starting
to punish sites that aren't secure.
And so if you have a blog or something
like that that you're trying to advertise,
and it is not over HTTPS, they're gonna
down-vote it in the search results.
And that I think we're gonna continue
to see a big trend towards that.
So this panel doesn't really provide a lot
but it's always important to make sure
that it's green so you know that
Google is happy with your site.
The reason that it's a little
bit complicated is if
you think about a website that itself
is over HTTPS, it serves itself, and
then maybe you have like a MailChimp
link or something like that.
And that's over HTTP, right?
So now we get into a little bit of
a tricky area where the site itself has
a certificate, but there is a form on it
that reaches out to something insecure.
And so this will show you every single
request that your site does and
make sure that they're all green.
>> Jon Kuperman: All right,
the next one is the Audits panel.
So this has been recently replaced
with this tool called Lighthouse,
which Google's been working on for
a really long time.
It's a great tool.
The Audits panel, I always think
about as like a very high level view.
Something like the performance or
the memory or network,
those are like really low level.
You're actually seeing your HTTP traffic
or you're seeing your JavaScript usage.
The audits is a lot more like it runs
your site through a suite of tests and
it gives you back really
actionable feedback, but
it'll give you back
things in plain English.
So it'll give you back things
like these images are too large.
You have too much CSS
that's not even being used,
or this site doesn't look good on mobile.
Things like that, right?
So it gives you this really
actionable feedback.
It's always where I like to start,
and at the end of the workshop,
we'll do some live audits
to people's sites.
And audit the audit step is always where
I start before diving into performance or
network or anything like that.
Cool, and yep, and there we go.
So that's all of them.
We've got a couple more buttons
here that I wanted to cover.
So one thing, if we go back to my app,
one thing that's difficult sometimes is if
you're in the Elements tab and you have
a really complicated app with a lot of
markup, sometimes it can be difficult to
find the item that you're looking for.
So one trick which I see a lot of
people do is when you right-click and
click Inspect, the DevTools will
actually do its best to open focused on
whatever you're right-clicking on.
Right, so you can kinda right-click and
boom, I have this focused.
When you get into really small things,
it's a lot more difficult for
the DevTools to know what it is that
you're trying to focus on, right?
So if you've got like a little button
with a border with a background
something like that.
So this over here, you can use, you can
click it once then you'll go into this
selection mode where you can move your
mouse around, and as you're moving your
mouse around, you'll notice that
the DOM actually changes its focus.
So you can kinda get it as fine grained
as you want, and then when you click,
it pops you back into the Elements
tab with what you clicked on.
The other one over here
is this Device toolbar.
So I can click this, and
we go into this device emulation mode.
So it's pretty cool, so you can do,
I guess back to things that I see a lot.
I see people testing their mobile layouts
by kind of dragging the window around.
They try to get it to where they think it
is, but you can actually just go to this
device simulation and
you can set it to responsive.
And then you can fully control,
what's 500 pixels wide,
how does that look, things like that.
You can zoom in and out.
This isn't controlling the websites.
It's controlling your perspective of it.
You can test what it's
like in offline mode or
even in different mobile conditions.
And you can even select specific phones.
So what does it look like on a pixel two?
What does it look like on
a pixel two turned sideways?
What does it look like on a pixel two on a
low end mobile device turned sideways and
then I hit the Refresh so
you can see that it takes
a tremendous amount of time to load.
So this is really good for
a lot of different things.
It's good for testing your screen sizes.
It actually does send the mobile headers,
so if you have an app,
it's pretty common with big companies
that when you hit their website,
they'll detect what kind
of device you're on.
And if you're on a mobile device, they'll
send you to a different experience,
whereas if you're on a desktop device,
they'll send you to one.
So if you want to test those things,
you can just set a mobile device,
Refresh your site, and it should be
redirected to the mobile experience.
It's also really good, this is like a big
thing that as we get into performance what
I'll harp on a lot is that a lot of
us are very lucky as developers.
We have high-end machines, we have access
to really good high-speed Internet.
So we'll test our site, we'll be like,
it's really snappy to me, right?
It looks really good.
And then, we'll get out there and
we'll have all these problems,
all these people having these problems.
So I think the network simulation is so
good for developing that empathy.
I know a couple of big companies, they'll
do things like low-tier Tuesdays or
something like that, where the IT
department like crank down the network
connectivity speeds in the office
on a day of the month, or whatever,
to kind of force everyone
to have that empathy for
what it's like browsing the Internet
at 2G speed or something like that.
But I think it's really important because,
again, I think there's a discrepancy.
Sometimes the site'll load really fast for
you.
Then we'll run an audit, and
the audit says it's really slow.
And it's like, well, what's going on here?
And it's like, well,
the audit is Is really trying to
think about the average use case.
So like somebody on an average device with
an average Internet connection is having
a very different experience than you.
Cool, and then the last thing
is over on the right side.
We've kinda got all these settings, and
we'll get into a lot of these later.
The important one for
now is just this idea of like you
can control where the dock goes.
So you click on the Settings,
you can control, dock it to the left,
dock it to the right, dock it to
the bottom or pop it out into its own tab.
Usually when I'm working on
something like a big site,
looking at performance and stuff like
that, I pop it out into its own tab so
I'm not constrained by it only
being part of the screen.
And then I think the last thing
I wanted to show you that's
kinda cool is what's
called the console drawer.
So on any tab except for the Console tab,
you can hit the Esc key, and the Esc key
will bring up a little drawer here with
the console and it looks just pretty nice.
So you can be looking at some kinda
element and then you can be like,
wait a minute, document.getElementById,
that element, you can do things like that.
So you can kind of be doing
both at the same time.
And then you can go ahead and
close that by hitting Esc again.